[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Author of Master your Mind
and Energy to Heal your Body.
You Can Be Your Own Cure,
following a life changing
accident and subsequent
fall back in 2003, which
left her disabled in
excruciating pain, Brandy
Gillmore shares
scientifically proven methods
for harnessing
mind body healing.
What a life you've had.
My gosh.
>>BRANDY GILLMORE: Yeah.
You know, honestly,
the last thing
that I ever thought that I
would be doing is self-healing.
That's been really pivotal.
>>NOORY: Tell us
about these episodes
that really affected you.
>>GILLMORE: Basically,
first and foremost,
I think healing
with the mind would
have sounded impossible to me.
So when I was first injured,
if somebody had told me
that I could heal
using my mind, I
would have thought
that they were crazy
or they didn't
understand my condition.
And I think that
some of the research
was eye-opening for me as far as
people with multiple personality
disorder can have different
ailments when they're
in different personalities.
And starting to find the
research was pivotal.
And so I would say
that to me, really--
there's so much that really got
me here to where I am today, so.
>>NOORY: What happened to you?
>>GILLMORE: So I used to
work in network engineering
operations, so
telecommunications basically.
And basically I had a car
accident and then I had a fall.
And it wasn't even
that bad of a fall,
but I fell just
wrong, just right,
however you want to say it.
>>NOORY: Two separate events?
>>GILLMORE: Two separate events.
And basically, I went from
living a full life to then
being wheelchair, walker,
cane, an absolute mess.
On a good day, I could get
around with my wheelchair
or walker or cane.
And on a bad day I didn't
make it out of bed.
I was on all kinds of
medication, morphine
and all kinds of
medication for years.
And basically my doctor said
that there was not really
anything else they
could do for me.
I mean, I had been going through
nerve ablations, infusions,
injections, all of that.
But each doctor
kept saying, there's
nothing else they could do.
>>NOORY: Brandy, let's
start with the car accident.
What happened
>>GILLMORE: You know,
it wasn't even that bad.
It was a car accident.
So basically what
happened is I got
hit on the front, right side,
front passenger side of the car.
And after that, I just had
a bad back, if you will.
It's like you continue
through life--
>>NOORY: You were
kinked up, right?
>>GILLMORE: What's that?
>>NOORY: You were kinked up.
>>GILLMORE: It was--
like a kinked up,
we could call it that.
I was injured, but
still working, still
going through life.
And you know when
you have back pain?
And that was me.
I mean, I was fine.
I wasn't great.
But then-- then I had this fall.
And basically what happens
is that after I fell--
there's a neurological condition
where it's like your body
kind of--
your nervous system is kind of
attacking itself, if you will,
or it's not--
It's over-- it's like an
abnormal response where
it's really heightened.
And so that's
ultimately what I had.
But I had all of this pain.
And I also, I mean, I
had other things as well.
I had spinal endplate
fractures, nerve--
>>NOORY: Because of the fall?
>>GILLMORE: A
combination of things.
>>NOORY: You sound like
you were falling apart.
>>GILLMORE: [LAUGHS]
I was falling apart.
You know it's
just-- that's what--
>>NOORY: Where did
the fall happen?
How did that happen?
>>GILLMORE: It's all, like--
honestly, I slipped on water
and I fell on the floor.
And I fell just
wrong, just right.
However you want to say
it, but I fell on my spine.
The way they described
it was like this.
Was like-- they said--
One of the doctors
described it was like,
imagine a Coke can
where if you crunch it,
it's pushing on all the nerves
and everything like that.
Is what one person described it.
But basically, I was a mess.
All I know is
this, myself, I had
razor blades of pain
shooting through my body,
and no matter what I did,
I couldn't get out of pain.
And it was hard.
It was very hard.
>>NOORY: Who diagnosed you?
>>GILLMORE: I had so
many different doctors.
I would say that what
happened is at first,
you go to the doctor
and after it happened,
they said, OK, well,
just lay there.
And it's like one
thing after another.
Is-- how do I put it?
You go see one doctor.
And then they said--
I think the first thing
I was diagnosed with
was nerve lesions, nerve lesions
and spondylosis and sciatica
and so it just--
it was through a
series of things.
So that was the first.
And then you keep
going to specialists
and then they go, oh, well, you
also have reduced bone density.
So it's like one thing
after another after another.
So it is an unfoldment,
if you will.
>>NOORY: Did they know what
they were talking about?
>>GILLMORE: You know, I
always like to give everybody
the benefit of the doubt.
What I do know--
>>NOORY: In retrospect now?
>>GILLMORE: This is
what I would say.
I think that, in retrospect,
what would I say?
I would say I was in an
extreme amount of pain
and whatever they
want to call it
all I know is that I was
injured for six and a half,
almost seven years,
and it was horrible.
So this is what
I would say, is--
So CRPS, complex regional pain
syndrome or reflex dystrophy,
that was given--
that label was given
about, I don't know,
a couple of years in or so,
maybe two, I don't know.
So it's an unfoldment.
I mean--
>>NOORY: What were some of the
normal things you tried to do
to get your life back in order?
>>GILLMORE: The normal
things I tried to do--
I mean, I think we all try to
push through and just be OK.
But after my injury, I
would get injections,
so they would do injections or
I would go and get infusions.
>>NOORY: Were you on pills?
>>GILLMORE: I was on
all kinds of pills.
I was on--
>>NOORY: Oxy?
>>GILLMORE: I was on oxy for a
while, but it made me really--
>>NOORY: It's addictive.
>>GILLMORE: You know, it
made me really agitated.
I was on it for
only a few months.
And I said, just
please take me off.
So then I went on this
24 hour morphine, avenza.
So I was on that for a while,
but I think it's off the market
now.
I was on a variety of Norco,
Neurontin, Naprosyn, Vioxx,
before it was taken off the
market for killing people.
So I was on Vioxx.
Then they told me--
they just called me
up, my doctor's office, and
they told me, stop taking it.
But they didn't tell me why.
So it was--
I guess it was taken off the
market for killing people.
>>NOORY: When did you decide
to take a different approach?
>>GILLMORE: I decided to
take a different approach--
the whole time, after they said
that I wasn't going to heal--
So I said the first year I felt
like I was in a waiting pattern.
Like, I would-- it's like,
wait for the next specialist.
So you wait, and you
wait a couple more weeks
and a couple more weeks
and they say, OK, well, you
can get into this
next specialist.
It's only three weeks away.
So then I just kind of would
try to distract myself and watch
TV and zone out and try not
to be frustrated with the pain
until that day.
Until that day.
And I would say I did that
probably for the first year.
And then when they kept saying--
one doctor after another kept
saying, there's nothing else we
could do, I would literally--
I would beg.
I would say, but there's got
to be something, some referral.
Any time any doctor would
say there's nothing else,
I would say, but--
but there's somebody, something,
because I couldn't just give up.
So then they--
>>NOORY: You were
begging for help.
>>GILLMORE: I was begging.
I was begging.
And so-- so then they
would say, well, I
could give you a
referral to so-and-so.
And so then I would
take that referral.
And then also in
the waiting rooms,
I would talk to other
people who were also injured
and we'd say, well,
what have you tried?
And what have you tried?
And it was just trying
to figure out something.
So then I tried all the
normal steps of saying,
OK, well, let me try
diet and supplements.
So I tried doing that, diet
and supplements and anything
that could help my
body to heal itself.
And my thought was, well, let
me speed up my body's repair
system.
But then I started
to think about it
and I realized,
well, my body was
kind of repairing
pretty well anyway.
I mean, if I had a nerve
ablation, my nerves grew back.
And so I started
thinking about the fact
that our bodies are constantly
repairing and replacing cells.
I mean, science
even estimates we
have approximately a new
skeleton about every 10 years.
And I thought,
well, wait a second.
How is it possible for people to
have that old football injury--
>>NOORY: You wanted your new
skeleton right now, right?
>>GILLMORE: Well, yeah.
And I also started
counting by the years.
And I was thinking,
gosh, I've been
injured for quite many years.
But also, how is it
possible for people
to be injured for so many
years If the body is constantly
repairing and replacing cells?
So that was something
that really struck me.
I mean, I started finding
more and more research
that started opening my eyes
to think in a different way.
And the other thing
that happened was this,
is as I was hoping that somebody
would invent something new
and that I would
get my life back.
So I was just hoping.
And I would go to this hospital.
And what happened is
two, three, four doctors
would come in the
room at the same time
and they'd try to make a
plan to figure you out.
So they'd all kind of assess
and then they'd go and--
>>NOORY: And they all had
their own opinions, right?
>>GILLMORE: They'd go
collect their minds together
for a treatment plan or whatnot.
Yeah, so they'd--
And so because I just
wasn't willing to give up,
but as I was going
to this center,
a study for a new
treatment came up
and they said that I could
be a part of this study.
And I thought to
myself, oh, my gosh,
like, I'm going to
get my life back.
>>NOORY: My prayers have
been answered, right?
>>GILLMORE: Exactly, exactly.
I felt like a kid counting
down the days for Christmas.
I was like-- until the study.
And so I was counting down
the days to this study.
And finally the day comes
and my friend picked me up
and she took me to the study and
she wheeled me in my wheelchair,
and I get into the hospital.
And the nurse starts prepping
me for the procedure,
gets me in the gurney,
and I'm laying there.
She's monitoring my vitals.
And the doctor, he comes in and
he looks at me and he says--
he's looking at his chart.
You could just see something
was off and he's looking down.
He's looking at me.
And he said, you
know, miss Gillmore,
we don't expect you to heal.
You can't be a
part of this study.
We don't expect
it's going to work.
And I--
>>NOORY: You were devastated.
>>GILLMORE: I felt like I
just swallowed an orange.
My throat was just like--
I was trying to
choke back tears.
I was not doing a
very good job at it.
And I just said it, just
please, I'll try anything.
And so it just--
what was pivotal, though, is
this, is that basically he did.
He ended up giving
me the injections.
And he was right,
they didn't work
because I said, but please got
to do something and I'll try it.
I don't care.
And initially he
said, well, you're
going to mess up the
results in the study.
So I was frustrated and I said,
but I came all the way here.
So technically, the treatment
that they were going to give me
had already been--
had already a lot
of testing on it.
>>NOORY: You were going to
bring their numbers down
and they didn't
want that to happen.
>>GILLMORE: Exactly.
It's exactly what he said.
>>NOORY: How depressed were you?
>>GILLMORE: God, I was a mess.
I was a mess.
I didn't want to
live after that.
>>NOORY: What do you mean
you didn't want to live?
>>GILLMORE: It's like--
I call it exit strategy.
My brain after that,
even at times--
>>NOORY: Did you
contemplate suicide?
>>GILLMORE: You know
what's so funny?
That when we call
names to something--
like, sometimes people will
say, well, were you suicidal?
And that label, I
don't like that label,
but I can tell you this.
People would be driving
me to the hospital and I
would be laying against the
door in the passenger side--
>>NOORY: Hoping the
door would open.
>>GILLMORE: And I
would be thinking,
what if I just opened
it and fell out?
And then I would think somebody
would probably run me over
and then I would be
worse off and I would
be mangled and in more pain.
>>NOORY: And not dead.
>>GILLMORE: Not dead.
And then other times I would
hear the trash truck drive by
and I don't know
why the trash truck,
but it was the trash truck.
And I would think I wonder if
I could get my wheelchair fast
enough and push myself in front
of it and just end it all.
And then I would have this
thought that says, well,
I probably have on a tombstone
"died by trash truck,"
and I don't want to have that.
And then I would
also think, well,
I would feel bad for the
driver who killed me.
And so people try to
label it suicidal.
I always say it was
like my brain was
on autopilot trying to think
about how I could exit life.
>>NOORY: How did you
snap out of that?
>>GILLMORE: I got to this place
where I said research was like--
research became my addiction and
my form of emotional survival.
Like, on days, if I would
just research and research
and research, I
could keep myself out
of the deep depression
and into hope.
>>NOORY: Did you meditate?
Did you do other
holistic things?
>>GILLMORE: I did a lot
of meditation for years.
>>NOORY: Didn't work?
>>GILLMORE: I could bliss out.
So I enjoyed meditation.
It didn't heal me,
but I enjoyed it.
I spent hours and
hours and hours a day
meditating and thinking positive
and chanting and affirmations
and all of the things.
And so it just--
gosh, so many things.
Binaural beats.
And all that stuff is really,
really-- it can be really great.
And I would say that for me,
I think that after a while,
it kind of became my
coping mechanism also.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
The placebo effect is
when they test somebody
with somebody else
who's on medicine,
and the person on the placebo
effect is not given medicine,
they're given a sugar pill
or something like that.
And in some cases,
they cure themselves
thinking that it's working.
Did you ever try that?
>>GILLMORE: You know, so
this is what happened.
So after that whole
experiment didn't work out,
that's exactly what I thought.
I thought, well, what
about the placebo?
Now, what's interesting
about the placebo is
people usually don't have
a cure from the placebo.
So a lot of times what
happens from the placebo
is people will their
symptoms will change,
but it doesn't
necessarily cure them.
But what was fascinating is I
thought, well, the placebo, we
can see that the mind can affect
the physical body because they
do.
They take a fake pill
and they can have
real physiological changes.
And so what I did after
that is I thought,
well, I'm just going to believe
that I'm already healed.
And I thought,
OK, I'm just going
to be grateful for my healing
and believe I'm already healed
and visualize myself
already healed.
And I was doing that.
And I thought initially that the
placebo was just due to belief.
And I had been doing
that for more than a
year, just trying to push myself
to believe I was already healed.
>>NOORY: Were you
getting any better?
>>GILLMORE: No.
And then what I found was that--
I started researching deeper.
I thought, OK, well,
why isn't this working?
I'm grateful.
I'm believing I'm
already healed.
I'm telling myself I'm healed.
I'm seeing myself healed.
And it wasn't working.
And then I found there's
something called the open label
placebo.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>GILLMORE: It is exactly--
And by the way, that
was my first response,
like, what is this?
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>GILLMORE: It is
exactly like it sounds.
It is open label.
So both the doctor
and the patient
both know it's a placebo.
They both know it's
a fake treatment.
>>NOORY: Coming in
you know it's a fake.
>>GILLMORE: And it still works.
Yes.
>>NOORY: It's the
power of the mind.
>>GILLMORE: Yes.
And I thought,
well, wait a second.
Then clearly it's
more than just belief.
And that's what made me--
when we first sat down,
I said that multiple
personality disorder,
that people could have
different illnesses
and different personalities.
And that's one of
the things that
led me to start
looking beyond, is
I thought, well, the placebo I
thought it was all about belief.
But then I realized when I found
the open-label placebo, well,
this isn't all
about belief at all.
And then the more I researched
the medical journals,
the more I found so many things
that multiple personality
disorder.
That was eye opening.
There was even a study
or a case of a woman who
was blind in some personalities
and not in others,
or other cases--
>>NOORY: And she could
see in another case.
>>GILLMORE: Exactly.
She could see in
other personalities.
Or people would have
asthma in one personality.
>>NOORY: Well, did you think
you had multiple personalities?
>>GILLMORE: No, but at
the time I was like, well,
how do I get a personality
that's healthy?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GILLMORE: And I have
so much compassion--
>>NOORY: And you were willing
to try anything, right?
>>GILLMORE: Exactly.
And I don't want to joke around
about multiple personality
disorder because I have so much
compassion for those people.
But yeah-- but that was
my thought was, well,
how do I get a
personality that's healed?
>>NOORY: What was that
aha moment for you?
That moment where
you said to yourself,
I'm on the path of healing?
>>GILLMORE: You know, I
think that there was--
there were so many of them.
One of them was just as I
started to get my strength back.
As I started-- my pain started
going down and staying down.
Because what happened
was with meditation
I could get my
pain to come down,
but then it would
always come back.
Or I could start feeling
better and then it was--
So it had a lot of
ups and down days.
And so when I started to
consistently feel better,
that was pivotal.
When I said, oh,
my gosh, this is--
I'm actually going to heal.
This is actually
going to happen.
>>NOORY: What got
you to that level?
>>GILLMORE: This is what
got me to that level.
There was a pivotal
moment that I said this.
I had been believing, doing
the belief, the meditation, all
of the things.
And I got to this
point where I said,
look, how long do I need to
meditate to be able to heal?
Because everything was
pointing at the mind.
>>NOORY: The meditation
wasn't working for you.
>>GILLMORE: Exactly.
But when I said exactly
that, when I said,
how long do I need to
meditate to activate
the mind-body healing mechanism?
And then I asked the
question, well, wait a second.
When people take the
placebo, how long
do they have to meditate
to get the mind body
connection to work?
Well, they don't.
Zero.
Well, with multiple
personality disorder,
a person can have one
illness and one personality
and a completely
different illness
and a different personality.
How long do they have to
meditate to get that to work?
Well, the answer was zero.
And so it dawned on me that
the mind body connection
didn't require meditation
at all to activate.
Now, nothing bad
against meditation,
but that was pivotal for
me, when I started saying,
wait a second, I've been
meditating for five years
and I'm not healing, but I see
that the mind-body connection
can work.
That was pivotal.
And I said, well,
how do I activate
this mind-body connection then
faster to then get results?
And that was a pivotal
moment in discovery for me.
>>NOORY: Some people, Brandy,
use music as a coping mechanism.
Did you?
>>GILLMORE: I ended up using
music to retrain my mind.
>>NOORY: Give me an example.
>>GILLMORE: One of the
things that I did is--
I read research that has shown
that optimism can speed up
cell proliferation.
So optimism can actually
speed up healing in the body.
And even after surgery,
people who are more optimistic
heal faster and people
who after surgery,
if they're in fear
or in stress, they
can have more complications.
So optimism--
So I said, OK, well,
let me get more
of this emotion of optimism.
And I said, I need to start
feeling better about life.
And so I said,
well, how am I going
to start feeling better
about life genuinely
when I'm such a mess?
Like, I'm fearful,
my life is a mess.
>>NOORY: You're depressed.
>>GILLMORE: Depressed,
all these things.
So I started listening to a
song by U2 called Beautiful Day.
And it says, it's
a beautiful day.
Don't let it slip away.
When at the time all I do
wanted to do was slip away.
>>NOORY: It's a good song.
>>GILLMORE: It is a good song.
It is a good song.
So I would listen to this
song and I wouldn't just
listen to it like--
I would listen to it and I
would focus my whole mind
on seeing the beauty in life
and taking it in and feeling
the feeling and
amplifying the feeling
as much as I possibly could.
So I would feel the feeling.
As much as I possibly could
to amplify that emotion.
>>NOORY: And it started
working for you?
>>GILLMORE: It started working.
And this is the way to
think about it is like this.
For us to memorize
anything, like the alphabet,
how do we memorize the alphabet?
We have to get it
in over and over
and over and over
again to memorize it.
Or a new language.
We learn a new language.
We have to get it in
over and over and over.
We memorize it.
So I said, well, how am I going
to get this feeling of feeling
optimism over and over and over
and over again when I don't have
anything to feel
optimistic about,
I don't have any happiness?
I said, OK, well, I better use
this song to hack the process.
And so what it did is I
kind of borrowed the emotion
from that song.
I used it to really help
me cultivate those feelings
as much as I could so I could
get them in over and over
and over and over again.
>>NOORY: How often
did you listen to it?
>>GILLMORE: Oh.
When I was at my worst, I
would listen to it every hour,
if not more.
It was of like re-upping.
>>NOORY: Wow!
>>GILLMORE: Because
I started to--
I would start to go
down into depression.
I'd be like, OK,
it's time-- it's
time to re-up on the happiness.
That song and another
one I listened to
was Walking On Sunshine
by Katrina and The Waves.
Walking on sunshine--
>>NOORY: (SINGING)
Walking on sunshine.
>>GILLMORE: And it's
going to feel good.
>>NOORY: Classics.
>>GILLMORE: Uh-huh.
>>NOORY: And then when did
you start feeling better?
>>GILLMORE: You know, I did
a combination of things.
What I started doing was
bringing in feelings of optimism
because optimism had
shown to speed up healing.
So I started bringing in
optimism and feeling it.
And then I also started
identifying specific emotions
in my subconscious mind and
started also releasing those.
And I would say it's
the combination of that,
of identifying what negative
emotions were in my subconscious
mind and releasing those.
You know, interesting,
Freud, Sigmund Freud
used to do that very
thing in psychology
of identifying negative patterns
in the subconscious mind
and getting rid of them
for people's stress levels.
And so what I started or--
anxiety and things like that.
And so what I started doing
was bringing in positive
and then also identifying
negative in my subconscious mind
and getting rid of it.
>>NOORY: Does gratitude
or thankfulness help?
>>GILLMORE: That
one's a little tricky.
That's a great question.
It's a great question.
It's a little tricky.
This is the reason
why, is that we
want to bring in more and
more positive emotions
and that's key for
healing, but what happens--
there's a bigger
picture to this.
So I would say this.
A lot of times when people have
an injury or illness, there's
a combination of emotions.
That's key.
Is the combination of emotions.
And sometimes the combination of
emotions that's affecting them
is guilt, is feeling
like a bad person,
is feeling self criticism, even
if somebody has done nothing--
>>NOORY: Beating
themselves down, right?
>>GILLMORE: Beating
themselves down,
even if they've done
nothing wrong, though.
And I had a feeling
of survivor's guilt
in my subconscious mind from
9/11 that I didn't even realize
was there.
>>NOORY: Why do you
feel guilty about that?
>>GILLMORE: You know, I,
as silly as it sounds,
I grew up very much
in religion and I
had a feeling of that
you're like, sacrifice,
that we're supposed to
sacrifice ourselves for others.
It was my programming was that I
was supposed to sacrifice myself
for others.
So that was one thing.
I would say also, I had this
belief or this programming
that it was good to feel
guilt. Like, if you felt guilt,
it meant that you
were a good person.
And so it's like a silly thing.
But basically, as a child,
I had linked up somewhere
along the way that if you feel
guilt, it means you're good,
it means you have a conscience,
it means you have a heart.
And so at a subconscious
level, it was linked up.
>>NOORY: Would you consider
then mind over matter works?
>>GILLMORE: I would say it's
not mind over matter at all.
Believe me, I tried that one.
>>NOORY: Really?
Then what is it?
What is that special
thing that healed you,
that heals other people?
What is it?
>>GILLMORE: This is what
I began to figure out.
So as I was trying to figure
out the placebo, the open label
placebo, multiple
personality disorder.
>>NOORY: Gratitude.
>>GILLMORE: Gratitude,
all of these things,
I started simplifying
it and I said, look,
how can I see the emotion--
or how can I see that the
mind affects the body?
Emotions.
If somebody is embarrassed,
their face turns red.
We all know that.
Emojis know that
on our cell phone.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GILLMORE: We all know that.
Or even panic attack.
Racing heart,
shortness of breath.
And so we all know panic attack.
And I said, yeah, but I need
a lot more than emotions
to heal my body.
But when I started
thinking about it,
people can die of
a broken heart.
People can also be
scared to death.
They're so scared
their heart stops.
And so what I started doing
was looking at the awareness
that different emotions can
affect the body differently.
A sexual thought
and a sexual emotion
affects people differently
than panic attack or anxiety.
And so I started questioning
and I said, well, wait a second.
If emotions can affect
us to the point of death,
what are happening to
these other emotions?
And in fact, research
has also shown--
there's studies that suggest
that autoimmune conditions can
be caused by stress or we even
with psychoneuroimmunology,
that stress can affect
the immune system.
And so there's all of
these links where stress,
and what is stress?
These negative
emotions, can affect
the immune system
and anxiety and panic
and all of these things.
So I started to
understand the emotions
that were in the
subconscious mind
and how they could
impact the physical body.
And that's what was pivotal.
>>NOORY: How do you think you
got out of that wheelchair?
>>GILLMORE: Basically
I started identifying
that I had subconscious
fears that were affecting me.
Kind of like this.
Have you ever heard the phrase
before paralyzed by fear?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GILLMORE: OK.
So I wasn't paralyzed--
>>NOORY: Still paralysis.
>>GILLMORE: OK.
So I wasn't actually paralyzed.
I was in-- my muscles
were not firing correctly
and my nerves were all
burning and all of that,
but I wasn't paralyzed.
But when we think about
emotions, they impact us.
And so I had always
been very, very--
I could push through anything.
I was--
>>NOORY: Macho girl.
>>GILLMORE: Macho, exactly.
I remember like, the
one time my mother
cried when I was growing up.
Like, emotions even in
the corporate world.
It was like, emotions-- leave
your emotions at the door.
And so it wasn't something
that I would have ever thought
my emotions couldn't affect me.
That would be weak.
I was macho for that.
But they're very real.
And if we think about it for
a moment, a lot of people
do this very thing.
If we think about
somebody all the time,
people will go to
the emergency room
and they think they're
having a heart attack.
And it turns out they're
actually having a panic attack.
And they don't realize
they're even experiencing
panicking emotions.
>>NOORY: And panicking emotions
feel like heart attacks.
>>GILLMORE: Exactly.
And so point being is that
it's like these emotions
in our subconscious mind are
affecting our physical bodies
and we don't even realize it.
And so I had buried all
of these emotions so much
I didn't realize I was in fear.
If somebody had asked me
if I had fear towards it,
I would have said, I'm only
worried about people in 9/11.
>>NOORY: What would you say was
the single biggest factor that
got you out of that wheelchair?
>>GILLMORE: As crazy as
it may or may not sound,
identifying the specific
emotions and shifting them,
creating huge--
like shifting my emotions,
so much so that it shifted
my mindset in a radical way.
>>NOORY: I'm going to have you
explain in a moment the five
factors for healing next.
But before we do that, I want
to show our watchers and viewers
some of the miracles of your
healing and how it works.
Let's take a look.
>>ANDREA JOHNSON: My
name is Andrea Johnson
and I would like to speak a
little bit about my journey
with Brandy Gillmore
and my healing process.
I met Brandy about
five years ago.
I had been sick and
bedridden for six years
and I had been supine
for that whole time.
I had tried many
different modalities.
They failed, of course.
I was looking for really
the whole package.
I wanted to heal and get better.
And so I started this
program with Brandy.
And instantly, like, right
away I could feel resolve.
I worked with her for about 18
months and exclusively with her,
and she helped me a lot change
my perceptions and my mind
and just different releasing
techniques for releasing
emotions and past issues.
And she really helped me
connect and understand
with what was the issues that
was creating the illness.
And she helped me
to unmanifest it.
Her coaching the entire time
was absolutely just amazing.
She was the most
compassionate human being,
which was something I
really needed at that time.
And she was somebody
I could count on
and I could rely on her to
be there for me to help me
through this process.
And about nine months
into that journey,
I walked for the first time
again in many, many years
to my front door.
And we caught the
whole thing on video.
And it really amazing.
And I would love to
share that with you.
[GASPS]
[LAUGHS]
>>SPEAKER 1: My reaction.
I was just dumbfounded.
>>SPEAKER 2: For how long?
>>ANDREA JOHNSON: I walked
around the house for like,
15 minutes earlier
today, and that--
So after that, the
progress continued
and I went from walking to
running in a matter of months.
I continued to go to the gym
and weightlifting and yoga,
and she continued to
support me and coach me
through those
experiences and help
me to achieve new levels of
healing even deeper and deeper
so that I could sustain
all these new experiences
and this new health
that I had gotten
and all the things that I
had learned in her video sets
and in her group sessions.
Really set a foundation
for where I am today.
And it's almost four years,
almost four years to the day
I started walking.
I'm just so grateful
for her and all
that she did for me and
she helped me with and most
importantly, for the
gift that she taught me,
because it didn't just give me
healing for my health and body.
It literally--
It changed my whole life in a
magnitude of many, many ways.
>>NOORY: That's amazing, Brandy.
>>GILLMORE: Isn't it sweet?
>>NOORY: Tell me more
about that experience.
It was like a miracle
you did with her.
>>GILLMORE: It was.
Do you also have--
OK, so it is like a miracle.
And--
>>NOORY: You're crying.
>>GILLMORE: I'm such a softie.
I love-- I love seeing people
just heal and get better.
And-- You know, I
know what it's like.
>>NOORY: That video
of Andrea was amazing.
But we've talked about
these five factors.
What are they?
>>GILLMORE: Absolutely.
So a simple way to think
about the five factors
is this, is as I started seeing
that different emotions affect
the physical body, I started
questioning it objectively,
but wait a second.
Somebody can be stressed
and not be sick?
A person can even
have PTSD and not
have physical illness at all.
How is that even possible?
And so as I started
looking at it objectively,
what I began to
realize was this,
was that it takes a certain
combination of emotions.
And a simple way to think
about it is like, this is it.
If somebody wants to make
cake and they have flour,
they can't make cake.
But if they have flour and they
mix it with other ingredients,
now they can make cake.
And if they have a
different recipe,
they can have a
completely different food.
And so similarly, that's
how I started looking at it,
where's those ingredients.
And that's how I figured
out how it was possible
for somebody to have
multiple personality disorder
and have one illness and one
personality, but not in another.
And a completely different
illness and another personality.
And so these ingredients, if
you will, these five factors--
>>NOORY: Which are?
>>GILLMORE: First and
foremost positive expectation,
optimism, it helps
speed up healing.
So that.
Then I call it the
NPPs and the negative--
Negative Punishment Patterns.
And these patterns have to
do with guilt or feeling
bad or self-criticism,
shame, all of that.
The third one is what I
call the symptom emotion,
and that is the emotion
that is directly connected
to the symptom.
So for example, if
somebody is embarrassed,
their face turns red
or panic, anxiety,
but starting to realize--
somebody might have a--
for example, somebody
might have neck pain
and they might feel that
somebody is a pain in the neck
and that can happen.
So it depends on the emotion
that's connected to the symptom.
So that's number 3.
Number 4 is what I call
our mind-body-soul needs.
And our mind-body-soul needs
has to do with the emotions
that we need.
So for example, we need
love, we need safety,
we need acknowledgment.
And so these can be
linked up to illness.
And a simple way to think
about it is like this.
Is that maybe you've
heard before somebody
who gets love from illness.
And so what can happen is
love can be linked to illness.
Or if somebody is in fear,
they can create illness.
Or another way to think
about it is like this,
is that sometimes people get
it linked up in their childhood
where we've heard before,
a child may have an owie.
Have you ever heard
of this before,
where a little kid has an owie?
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>GILLMORE: And somebody says,
oh, let me kiss your owie
and make it better.
>>NOORY: And it does.
>>GILLMORE: Well,
actually, at that moment,
love can get linked
up to illness.
And at a subconscious
level, somebody
can link up, that illness
gets love and connection.
So-- so what I'm saying is
that the mind can be miswired.
And so that's the fourth factor.
And the fifth key factor that
I've found is self image.
And what that is that
somebody may see themselves
as being a person who's ill.
So maybe they've had
an illness for a while
and it becomes their identity.
And so they have one
illness after another.
And that's the way
they see themselves.
Or they may see themselves as
being like a parent who's sick,
and then they start taking
that on as their identity.
Also, that they're
a sick person,
they're a person who's sick.
And so there's these keys
in the subconscious mind
that I have found
that are pivotal.
And so what I help people do
is identify these specific keys
and help them to
create that change.
>>NOORY: Must you do all
five in order to heal?
>>GILLMORE: Some people
only have two or three.
Some people have four.
Some people have mixed.
>>NOORY: So you don't need
all five at the same time?
>>GILLMORE: You don't
necessarily need all five.
>>NOORY: What is the hidden
gift in self-healing?
>>GILLMORE: The gift
is this, is that when
we identify the specific
negative emotions
in our subconscious
mind and we change them,
it becomes life changing.
A lot of times, for
me, for example,
I had guilt running
in my subconscious
mind, survivor's guilt running
in my subconscious mind.
And when I identified
that patterned way
of thinking and feeling and
I changed it, it was pivotal.
So years and years and years and
years of meditation didn't work.
But when I identified
the specific emotions
in my subconscious
mind and changed those,
that's when it became pivotal.
>>NOORY: You have a four
step program, don't you?
>>GILLMORE: I do.
>>NOORY: Called GIFT.
>>GILLMORE: It's called GIFT.
It is.
To simplify GIFT--
I just want to make
it simple for people.
And so GIFT what it is is step--
it's G-I-F-T. And G is about get
new healthy mind programming.
So it's like get a vision,
get positivity, get optimism.
That's step G, is get
those new healthy emotions.
Step I is identify what's
in your subconscious mind,
identify it and
eradicate it or--
I'm sorry, identify.
Step I is identify.
Step F is actually
free yourself from it.
So that's when you're freeing
yourself from the negativity.
And then step T
is transformation,
which is stepping into the
transformation of it all.
>>NOORY: Master Your Mind
And Energy To Heal Your Body.
>>GILLMORE: That's exactly it.
>>NOORY: You wrote a great book.
How do people get it?
>>GILLMORE: It is
anywhere books are sold.
Amazon, Barnes & Noble,
and any bookstores.
>>NOORY: Brandy, I'm glad.
I'm proud of you for what
you've done for yourself,
but more importantly, what
you've done for humanity.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: George, you're
absolutely wonderful.
And I just admire you.
You're brilliant.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: Is it a miracle?
Is it the body's self
mechanism to heal,
or is there something grander?
I think Brandy Gillmore
has found the answer.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]